In this project, the Raven's Progressive Matrix (RPM) problems, which are psychometric problems, are attempted to be solved by an intelligent agent, developed in Python, which makes use of several heuristics. The RPM problems consist of 2x2 or 3x3 matrices with an empty slot (box) and a number of image answer choices provided. The agent's job is to programmatically identify the image answer choice that best fits the matrix and thereby solves the matrix problem. The agent code and heuristics should be generalizable enough such that when "new" or "unseen" problems are presented to the agent, the agent is able to solve them with a reasonable level of accuracy.</br> 
The PRM problems are 96 in total and have varying levels of complexity. The RPM problems are arranged in categories - Basic Problems B (2x2 matrix problems), Basic Problems C, D and E (3x3 matrix problems), Challenge Problems B (2x2 matrix problems), Challenge Problems C, D and E (3x3 matrix problems). The problems increase in complexity from the Basic Problems to the Challenge Problems. The only imported libraries used in the project, other than the packages in the Standard Python library are NumPy, Pillow and OpenCV. The Pillow library is mainly used for opening and manipulating images, while the OpenCV library is a computer vision library and is used to perform computer vision tasks, such as image recognition and 2D or 3D analysis to image motion tracking, image recognition, and the like. Computer vision tasks like these are required to solve the RPM problems. In solving the problems, the Python agent breaks down the problems into two broad categories - advanced problems and "general problems". For the advanced problems, heuristics such as Hu moments, aspect ratios, and connected components are used. The methodology used in the heuristics covered by this class of problems involve attempting to capture higher-order and complex relationships and geometric and abstract transformations in the matrix images in the problems such that most feasible option images, amongst the ones provided, can be identified to complete the matrices and solve the problems. For the "general problems", the agent uses a Visual Heuristic Methodology, described in the paper by [Joyner et al (2015)](https://computationalcreativity.net/iccc2015/proceedings/2_1Joyner.pdf), which is a pixel-level heuristic, consisting of pixel ratio measurements using the Dark Pixel Ratio (DPR) and Intersection Pixel Ratio (IPR). </br>
In this Visual Heuristic methodology, the matrix images are represented by collections of adjacent non-white pixels by the agent. The possibility of each of the image answer choices being the correct image that completes the matrix is computed by the agent. To do this, some measurements that pick up the relationship between each training pair (any two adjacent images in the matrix) are taken by the agent. These measurements are then compared, by the agent, with each one of the test/answer pairs and the grouping of any of the matrix images adjacent to the empty image position in the matrix and each image answer choice. Each of the meaningful comparisons casts a vote for the given image choice (which is represented by each given comparison) as the likely image that correct solves the matrix problem and completes the matrix. A weight measure is also assigned to each comparison, and this weight is directly associated with the perceived correlation of the option image with the images in the matrix. The image answer choice that has the most votes is selected as the answer that solves the matrix problem and completes the matrix.</br>
The agent uses these two measurements in this methodology: </br>
1. Dark pixel ratio (DPR) – this represents the percentage ratio of the number of pixels that are dark-colored and the total number of pixels that exist in a group of two adjacent matrix images. </br>
2. Intersection pixel ratio (IPR) – this represents the percentage ratio of the number of intersecting (on the same coordinates) pixels that are dark-colored and the total number of pixels that are dark-colored in a group of two adjacent matrix images.
